README.md, before:

<img align="center" alt="Makes Math Easy" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60106112/110195548-f9a2f300-7e63-11eb-81ff-bc776e86456c.png">

![contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/sairish2001/makesmatheasy)
![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/sairish2001/makesmatheasy)
![Pull Requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/sairish2001/makesmatheasy)
[![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2021?color=green&logo=github)](https://github.com/sairish2001/makesmatheasy)
![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/sairish2001/makesmatheasy?style=social) 
![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/sairish2001/makesmatheasy?style=social)


Started on **13 July,2020**

Tagline - **Your answers just a click away**
Tagline introduction date - **28 April,2021**

Solves various Math Problems along with Steps

### How it differs from other problem-solving projects?

- Speed
- No Server-side Interactions
- Complex Calculations within a few ms(milliseconds)

---

### Tech Used

<img alt="HTML5" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/html5%20-%23E34F26.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white"/> <img alt="CSS3" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/css3%20-%231572B6.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white"/> <img alt="JavaScript" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript%20-%23323330.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E"/> <img alt="Bootstrap**" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/bootstrap%20-%23563D7C.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white"/> <img alt="jQuery" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/jquery%20-%230769AD.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=jquery&logoColor=white"/>



Other Tech/Libraries

- [nerdamer](https://nerdamer.com/) for solving various Calculations
- [plotly.js](https://mathjs.org/examples/browser/plot.html.html) by Math.js for plotting Graphs
- [KaTeX](https://katex.org/) for typesetting Math
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.4/getting-started/introduction/) for UI
- jQuery for UI Toggling actions
- [SideNav from MaterializeCSS](https://materializecss.com/sidenav.html) for touch friendly SideNav only
- [Flaticons](https://www.flaticon.com/) for Icons
- [eMathHelp](https://www.emathhelp.net/) for Calculus Steps

---

### Calculators

- Inbuilt Calculator

  - Regular Calculations
  - Scientific Calculations
  - Fraction/Decimal Answer

- Linear Algebra

  - Mathematical Reasoning
  - Euclid Geometry (Axioms and Postulates)
  - Operations on Sets
  - Sets, Relations and Functions
  - Types of Relations
  - Sets Formulas List
  - Sigma Notation
  - Matrix (with Steps)
    - Transpose
    - Minors and Co-Factors
    - Determinant with Laplace(Upto 5×5)
    - Rank
    - Inverse
    - Addition
    - Subtraction
    - Multiplication
  - Properties of Matrices and Determinants
  - Cramer's Rule Calculator
  - Solve for X
  - Cayley Hamilton Theorem and Diagonalization
  - Mean Calculator(AM GM & HM)
  - Sequence & Series
  - Sum of N-terms of an Arithmetic Progression
  - Sum of N-terms of a Geometric Progression
  - Sum of N-terms of a Harmonic Progression
  - Important Series and Sequences
  - Aliquot Sums

- Conic Section

  - Circle
  - Parabola
  - Ellipse
  - Hyperbola
  - Paraboloid

- Calculus

  - Inverse and Periodicity of Functions
  - Transformation of Functions
  - Integration
    - Solution from Nerdamer
    - Steps from eMathHelp
    - Graph
  - Integration Formulas
  - Definite Integration Formulae
  - Methods of Integration
  - Improper to Proper Integral
  - Differentiation + Higher Order
    - Solution from Nerdamer
    - Steps from eMathHelp
    - Graph
  - Differentiation Formulas
  - Partial Differentiation
    - Solution/Steps from eMathHelp
    - Graph
  - Differential Equations
  - Partial Differential Equations
  - Power Series
  - Theorems on Differentiation
  - Application of Derivative
  - Maxima and Minima of functions
  - Beta Gamma Functions
  - Gamma Function Calculator
  - Beta Function Calculator
  - Laplace + Inverse Laplace
    - Solution from Nerdamer
    - Steps from eMathHelp
    - Graph
  - Laplace Transforms and Properties
  - Limits
  - Tangent and Normal
  - Vector Calculus
  - Vector Calculator
  - Vector Algebra
  - Convergence and Divergence of Series
  - Fourier Series

- Trigonometry

  - P/B/H Trigonometry
  - Hyperbolic trigonometric ratios calculator
  - Trigonometric Values
  - Trigonometric Identities
  - Trigonometric Functions
  - Inverse Trigonometric Identities
  - Hyperbolic Trigonometric Identities
  - Inverse Hyperbolic Trigonometric Identities
  - Unit Circle
  - General Solution of Trigonometric Equations
  - Height and Distance
  - Expansion of Functions
  - Solution of Triangles
    - Law of Sines Calculator
    - Law of Cosines Calculator
  - Sum and Difference Of Trigonometric Function

- General Maths (with Steps)
  - Ackermann Function
  - LCM
    - Upto 20 numbers
  - HCF
    - Calculating Factors of each number and picking common out of them
  - Factors
    - Prime Factorization **( with steps for single number)**
  - Euclid GCD
  - Antilog calculator
  - Change Log base
  - Doubling Time
  - Percentage change
  - Percentage off
  - Modulo calculator
  - Sieve of Eratosthenes
  - Adam Numbers
  - Greatest Integer Function and Fractional Part
  - Quartiles
  - Deciles
  - Exponential Growth Calculator
  - Percentile Rank Calculator
  - Half Life Calculator
  - Direct And Indirect Proportion
  - Cross Multiplication Calculator
  - Diamond Problem Calculator
  - Additive Inverse
  - Multiplicative Inverse
  - Square root calculator
  - Unit Rate Calculator
  - Order of Magnitude Calculator
  - Work And Time Calculator
  - Abundant Number
  - Solve for Exponents
  - Sum of Square of Given number
  - Natural Numbers
  - Clock Angle Calculator
  - Root Mean Square
  - Squares and Cubes Calculator
  - Relative Risk Calculator
  - Negative Binomial Distribution Calculator
  - n-th base root calculator
  - Perfect Squares & Cubes in a range
  - Factorization
  - Percentage Calculator
  - Error Percentage Calculator
  - Interest(Simple,Compound) 
  - Cost and Selling Prices 
  - Effective Interest Rate 
  - Profit Loss Calculations
  - Set Calculator 
  - Pythagorean Triplets
  - Rank Calculator
  - Leap Year
  - Hydrostatic Pressure
  - Logarithm Properties
  - Logarithm Calculator
    - Calculates the log of x to the base y
  - Ln Calculator
  - Binomial Theorem Properties
  - Binomial Coefficient Calculator
  - Binomial expression multiplication
  - Foil Calculator
  - Operations on Fractions
  - Multiplication Table
    - Prints Multiplication Table
  - Divide
    - Division
    - Divisibility Checker
  - Multiplication with Steps
  - Rounding off numbers
  - EMI Calculator
  - GST Calculator
  - Golden Ratio Calculator
  - Golden Rectangle Calculator
  - Polynomial Degree Finder
  - Factorial
  - Permutation & Combination
  - Prime Numbers
    - Primality Test
    - Primes till entered number
  - Euler Totient Function
  - Euler Totient Calculator
  - Next Prime Number
  - Smallest Prime Factor
  - Sum of Divisors
  - Double Factorial
  - Catalan Numbers
  - Desargues Theorem
  - Dirichlet's theorem on arithmetic progressions
  - Smallest Number Divisible
  - Lucas series
  - Types of numbers
  - Neon Number
  - Disarium Number
  - Krishnamurthy Number
  - Automorphic Number 
  - Pronic Number
  - Harshad Number
  - Cullen Number 
  - Trimorphic Number
  - Eulerian Number
  - Carmichael Number
  
  - Delannoy Number
- Basic Convertors

  - Currency Convertor
    - Conversion to words **(eg. '243' to 'two hundred and forty three only')**
  - Conversion to words
  - Unit Convertor
    - Length
    - Area
    - Volume
    - Mass
    - Temperature
    - Pressure
    - Energy
    - Radiation
    - Time
    - Angle
    - Speed
    - Data
    - Power
  - Improper to Mixed Fraction
  - Percentage and Ratio Converter
  - SPI/CGPA Convertor
  - Ascending and Descending Order
  - Date
  - Roman/Arabic Numerals
    - Conversion from Roman to Arabic and vice versa
    - Expanding the Arabic numbers **(eg. '2423' to '2000+400+20+3')**
    - Expanding the Roman numbers **(eg. 'CIV' to 'C+IV')**

- Graphs & Shapes

  - Plot Graph
    - Plots a Graph of entered Equation having single variable 'x'
  - Plot Bar Graph
    - Plots a Bar Graph along x and y axis by taking input from the user
  - Plot Angle
  - Supplementary Angle Calculator
  - Complementary Angle Calculator
  - Coterminal Angle Calculator
  - SSS Triangle's Angle Calculator
  - Straight Line Formulas
  - Properties of Parallel Lines
  - Coordinate Systems
  - Manhattan Distance Calculator
  - Cartesian coordinates calculator
  - Spherical coordinates calculator
  - Cylindrical coordinates calculator
  - Polar coordinates calculator
  - Bilinear Interpolation Calculator
  - Coordinate Geometry Calculator
  - Coordinate Geometry Formula and Theorem
  - Segment Area Calculator
  - Curve Tracing
  - Ceva's and Thales Theorem
  - Important Graph Calculators
  - Properties of Circles
  - Triangle Calculator
  - Inequalities of Triangles
  - Properties of Quadrilaterals
  - Segment Area Calculator
  - Arc Length Calculator
  - Area of Crescent and Lune
  - Platonic Solids
  - 2-D Shapes Inscribed
  - Name Of 2D Shapes
  - Shapes Calculator + Written formulas
    - Square
    - Rectangle
    - Round corner
    - Rhombus
    - Triangles
    	1. Equilateral Triangle
    	2. Isosceles Triangle
    	3. Isosceles Right Triangle
    	4. Right-angled Triangle
    	5. Scalene Triangle
    - Circle
    - Sector of circle
    - Semi-Circle
    - Annulus
    - Kite
    - Lemniscate
    - Line
    - Trapezium
    - Ellipse
    - Stadium
    - Claw
    - Cycloid
    - Double Cycloid
    - Parallelogram
    - Polygons: Pentagon, Concave Pentagon, Hexagon, Concave Hexagon, Stretched Hexagon, Heptagon, Octagon, Nonagon, Decagon, Dodecagon, Hendecagon, TriDecagon, TetraDecagon, Pentadecagon, Hexadecagon, Heptadecagon, Octadecagon, Enneadecagon, Icosagon, Polygon Calculator
    - Star Polygons: Pentagram, Hexagram, Unicursal Hexagram, Octagram, Double Star Polygon, Star of Lakshmi
    - T-Shape
    - H-Shape
    - L-Shape
    - X-Shape
    - Drop Shape
    - Arbelos
    - Helix
    - Spherical Triangle
    - Right Kite

  - Name Of 3D Shapes
  - 3D Shapes Calculator
    - Capsule
    - Cube
    - Cuboid
    - Cupola
    - Cylinder
    - Cone
    - Double Calotte
    - Sphere
    - Hollow Cylinder
    - Oblique Circular Cylinder
    - Hollow Sphere
    - Hemisphere
    - Torus
    - Conical Frustum
    - Ellipsoid
    - Prisms
    - Pyramids
    - Wedge
    - Octahedron
    - Tetrahedron
    - Dodecahedron
    - Rhombic Dodecahedron
    - Icosahedron
    - Cuboctahedron
    - Parallelepiped
    - Hyperboloid
    - N-dimension Sphere
    - Trapezoid
    - Spheroidal Cap
    - Ellipsoidal Cap
    - Hollow Cuboid
  - 3-D shapes Inscribed
  - 4-D Shapes Calculator
    - Glome
    - Tesseract
    - Hypersphere
  - 3-D Geometry
  - 3-D Geometry Calculator
  - Volume, CSA, TSA
  - Volumetric Weight Calculator
  - Percentage change in volume of a cube
  - Percentage change in volume of a sphere
  - Percentage change in volume of a Cuboid
  - Congruence and Similarity of Triangles
  - Faulhaber's Formula

- Equations

  - Algebraic Equations Formulas
  - Roots of Quadratic Equation
  - Location of Roots
  - Play with Equations (without Steps)
    - Simplify Equation
    - Expand Equation
    - Solve value of variables of multiple inputted equations
  - Quadratic Equation Calculator

- Binary Calculations

  - Boolean Algebra
  - Any Base to Any Base Converter
  - Bin/Dec/Oct/Hex Converter
  - Addition of any Number System
  - Subtraction of any Number System
  - Multiplication of any Number System
  - Division Of any Number System
  - Decimal/BCD Converter
    - BCD Code Addition
  - Excess-3 Code Converter
  - Decimal/2421 Code Converter
  - Grey Code Converter
  - Bitwise Calculator
  - (R-1)'s & R's Complement Calculator
  - Hamming Code
  - Hamming Distance

- Complex Numbers

  - Identities
  - Properties
  - De-Moivre's Theorem and Cauchy-Reimann Theorem
  - Representation by Power Series
  - Milne Thomson Method
  - Contour Integration
  - Residue Methods
  - Cauchy Integral,Liouville's and Rouche's Theorem
  - Operations for 1 complex number
    - Magnitude
    - Argument
    - Conjugate
    - Square Root
    - Polar Representation
    - Euler Representation
    - Nth-Power of Complex Number
  - Operations for 2 complex numbers
    - Addition
    - Subtraction
    - Multiplication
    - Division
  - Roots of Unity calculator

- Probability

  - Empirical Probability
  - Geometric Probability Distribution
  - Conditional Probability
  - Joint Probability
  - Independent And Dependent Event Probability
  - Probability  Properties
  - Binomial Distribution Calculator
  - Poisson Distribution Calculator
  - Hypergeometric Distribution Calculator
  - Bayes Probability Theorem
  - Poisson Distribution Statistics
  - Hypergeometric Distribution Statistics
  - Exponential Distribution Calculator
  - Gamma Distribution Calculator
  - Mean and Variance of Random variable
- Statistics

  - Statistics Formulae
  - Weighted Mean Calculator
  - Mean Median Mode
  - Midrange Calculator
  - Sensitivity and Specificity Calculator
  - Standard Deviation
  - T-test
  - AB-test
  - F-test
  - Z-test
  - Z score Calculator
  - Relative Risk Calculator
  - Negative Binomial Distribution Calculator
  - p chart Calculator
  - p value Calculator
  - np chart Calculator
  - Confidence Interval Calculator
  - PPV calculator
  - NPV calculator
  - Odds Calculator
  - Skewness Calculator
  - Coefficient of Variation
  - Covariance Calculator
  - Correlation Coefficient Calculator
  - Linear Regression Calculator
  - Margin of Error Calculator
  - Chi-Square Test

---

## Documentation

[Makes Math Easy Documentation](https://github.com/sairish2001/Makes-Math-Easy-Documentation)

Documentation Website :- [Link](https://sairish2001.github.io/makesmatheasy-documentation//)

### Future Scope

- To add more useful calculators to solve Math problems along with steps
- To show steps of Integration, Differentiation, Laplace, Partial Differentiation rather than showing on eMathHelp website by redirecting to it
- Improving the UI
- Release in 4 variants
  - Webapp
  - Library
  - Android App
  - IOS App

Feel free to come up with new ideas yourself.

# How to Contribute

If you think that you can add a new feature or want to fix a bug. We invite you to contribute to Makes Math Easy and make this project better. To start contributing, follow the below instructions:

1. Create a folder at your desire location (usually at your desktop).

2. Open Git Bash Here

3. Create a Git repository.

   Run command `git init`

4. Fork the [repository](https://github.com/makesmatheasy/makesmatheasy).

5. Clone your forked repository of project.

```git clone
git clone https://github.com/<your_username>/makesmatheasy.git
```

6. Navigate to the project directory.

```
cd makesmatheasy
```

7. Add a reference(remote) to the original repository.

```
git remote add upstream https://github.com/makesmatheasy/makesmatheasy.git
```

8. Check the remotes for this repository.

```
git remote -v
```

9. Always take a pull from the upstream repository to your main branch to keep it updated as per the main project repository.

```
git pull upstream main
```

10. Create a new branch(prefer a branch name that relates to your assigned issue).

```
git checkout -b <YOUR_BRANCH_NAME>
```

11. Perform your desired changes to the code base.

12. Check your changes.

```
git status
```

```
git  diff
```

13. Stage your changes.

```
git add . <\files_that_you_made_changes>
```

14. Commit your changes.

```
git commit -m "relevant message"
```

15. Push the committed changes in your feature branch to your remote repository.

```
git push -u origin <your_branch_name>
```

16. To create a pull request, click on `compare and pull requests`.

17. Add appropriate title and description to your PR explaining your changes.

18. Click on `Create pull request`.

Congratulations🎉, you have made a PR to the Makes Math Easy.
Wait for your submission to be accepted and your PR to be merged by a maintainer.

If you have any doubts please let us know in the comments.

### BE OPEN!

---

### This project is a part of following Open Source Program
<table style="width:80%;background-color:white;border-radius:30px;">
  <tr>
  <td>
  
  ![GirlScript Summer of Code](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60106112/121303779-19d9c680-c919-11eb-8954-36fd99115527.png)

  </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
  <td>

  ![Lets Grow More Summer of Code](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60106112/121303829-28c07900-c919-11eb-8cf2-afd39b5c54ab.png)
  </td>
  </tr>
</table>


### Project Maintainers

- [Rajinderpal Singh](https://github.com/sairish2001) (Project Admin)
- [Arpit Jain](https://github.com/arpit456jain) (Mentor)

## 🌟 Contributors

Thanks to these wonderful peoples ✨✨:

<table>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<a href="https://github.com/sairish2001/makesmatheasy.github.io/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=sairish2001/makesmatheasy.github.io" />
</a>
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

Commit message:

Update README.md (#5251)
Corrected spelling of Convertor to converter and made use of articles

README.md, after:

<img align="center" alt="Makes Math Easy" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60106112/110195548-f9a2f300-7e63-11eb-81ff-bc776e86456c.png">

![contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/sairish2001/makesmatheasy)
![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/sairish2001/makesmatheasy)
![Pull Requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/sairish2001/makesmatheasy)
[![Maintenance](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2021?color=green&logo=github)](https://github.com/sairish2001/makesmatheasy)
![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/sairish2001/makesmatheasy?style=social) 
![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/sairish2001/makesmatheasy?style=social)


Started on **13 July,2020**

Tagline - **Your answers just a click away**
Tagline introduction date - **28 April,2021**

Solves various Math Problems along with Steps

### How it differs from other problem-solving projects?

- Speed
- No Server-side Interactions
- Complex Calculations within a few ms(milliseconds)

---

### Tech Used

<img alt="HTML5" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/html5%20-%23E34F26.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white"/> <img alt="CSS3" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/css3%20-%231572B6.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white"/> <img alt="JavaScript" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/javascript%20-%23323330.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=%23F7DF1E"/> <img alt="Bootstrap**" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/bootstrap%20-%23563D7C.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white"/> <img alt="jQuery" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/jquery%20-%230769AD.svg?&style=for-the-badge&logo=jquery&logoColor=white"/>



Other Tech/Libraries

- [nerdamer](https://nerdamer.com/) for solving various Calculations
- [plotly.js](https://mathjs.org/examples/browser/plot.html.html) by Math.js for plotting Graphs
- [KaTeX](https://katex.org/) for typesetting Math
- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.4/getting-started/introduction/) for UI
- jQuery for UI Toggling actions
- [SideNav from MaterializeCSS](https://materializecss.com/sidenav.html) for touch friendly SideNav only
- [Flaticons](https://www.flaticon.com/) for Icons
- [eMathHelp](https://www.emathhelp.net/) for Calculus Steps

---

### Calculators

- Inbuilt Calculator

  - Regular Calculations
  - Scientific Calculations
  - Fraction/Decimal Answer

- Linear Algebra

  - Mathematical Reasoning
  - Euclid Geometry (Axioms and Postulates)
  - Operations on Sets
  - Sets, Relations and Functions
  - Types of Relations
  - Sets Formulas List
  - Sigma Notation
  - Matrix (with Steps)
    - Transpose
    - Minors and Co-Factors
    - Determinant with Laplace(Up to 5×5)
    - Rank
    - Inverse
    - Addition
    - Subtraction
    - Multiplication
  - Properties of Matrices and Determinants
  - Cramer's Rule Calculator
  - Solve for X
  - Cayley Hamilton Theorem and Diagonalization
  - Mean Calculator(AM GM & HM)
  - Sequence & Series
  - Sum of N-terms of an Arithmetic Progression
  - Sum of N-terms of a Geometric Progression
  - Sum of N-terms of a Harmonic Progression
  - Important Series and Sequences
  - Aliquot Sums

- Conic Section

  - Circle
  - Parabola
  - Ellipse
  - Hyperbola
  - Paraboloid

- Calculus

  - Inverse and Periodicity of Functions
  - Transformation of Functions
  - Integration
    - Solution from Nerdamer
    - Steps from eMathHelp
    - Graph
  - Integration Formulas
  - Definite Integration Formulae
  - Methods of Integration
  - Improper to Proper Integral
  - Differentiation + Higher Order
    - Solution from Nerdamer
    - Steps from eMathHelp
    - Graph
  - Differentiation Formulas
  - Partial Differentiation
    - Solution/Steps from eMathHelp
    - Graph
  - Differential Equations
  - Partial Differential Equations
  - Power Series
  - Theorems on Differentiation
  - Application of Derivative
  - Maxima and Minima of functions
  - Beta Gamma Functions
  - Gamma Function Calculator
  - Beta Function Calculator
  - Laplace + Inverse Laplace
    - Solution from Nerdamer
    - Steps from eMathHelp
    - Graph
  - Laplace Transforms and Properties
  - Limits
  - Tangent and Normal
  - Vector Calculus
  - Vector Calculator
  - Vector Algebra
  - Convergence and Divergence of Series
  - Fourier Series

- Trigonometry

  - P/B/H Trigonometry
  - Hyperbolic trigonometric ratios calculator
  - Trigonometric Values
  - Trigonometric Identities
  - Trigonometric Functions
  - Inverse Trigonometric Identities
  - Hyperbolic Trigonometric Identities
  - Inverse Hyperbolic Trigonometric Identities
  - Unit Circle
  - General Solution of Trigonometric Equations
  - Height and Distance
  - Expansion of Functions
  - Solution of Triangles
    - Law of Sines Calculator
    - Law of Cosines Calculator
  - Sum and Difference Of Trigonometric Function

- General Maths (with Steps)
  - Ackermann Function
  - LCM
    - Up to 20 numbers
  - HCF
    - Calculating Factors of each number and picking common out of them
  - Factors
    - Prime Factorization **( with steps for single number)**
  - Euclid GCD
  - Antilog calculator
  - Change Log base
  - Doubling Time
  - Percentage change
  - Percentage off
  - Modulo calculator
  - Sieve of Eratosthenes
  - Adam Numbers
  - Greatest Integer Function and Fractional Part
  - Quartiles
  - Deciles
  - Exponential Growth Calculator
  - Percentile Rank Calculator
  - Half Life Calculator
  - Direct And Indirect Proportion
  - Cross Multiplication Calculator
  - Diamond Problem Calculator
  - Additive Inverse
  - Multiplicative Inverse
  - Square root calculator
  - Unit Rate Calculator
  - Order of Magnitude Calculator
  - Work And Time Calculator
  - Abundant Number
  - Solve for Exponents
  - Sum of Square of Given number
  - Natural Numbers
  - Clock Angle Calculator
  - Root Mean Square
  - Squares and Cubes Calculator
  - Relative Risk Calculator
  - Negative Binomial Distribution Calculator
  - n-th base root calculator
  - Perfect Squares & Cubes in a range
  - Factorization
  - Percentage Calculator
  - Error Percentage Calculator
  - Interest(Simple,Compound) 
  - Cost and Selling Prices 
  - Effective Interest Rate 
  - Profit Loss Calculations
  - Set Calculator 
  - Pythagorean Triplets
  - Rank Calculator
  - Leap Year
  - Hydrostatic Pressure
  - Logarithm Properties
  - Logarithm Calculator
    - Calculates the log of x to the base y
  - Ln Calculator
  - Binomial Theorem Properties
  - Binomial Coefficient Calculator
  - Binomial expression multiplication
  - Foil Calculator
  - Operations on Fractions
  - Multiplication Table
    - Prints Multiplication Table
  - Divide
    - Division
    - Divisibility Checker
  - Multiplication with Steps
  - Rounding off numbers
  - EMI Calculator
  - GST Calculator
  - Golden Ratio Calculator
  - Golden Rectangle Calculator
  - Polynomial Degree Finder
  - Factorial
  - Permutation & Combination
  - Prime Numbers
    - Primality Test
    - Primes till entered number
  - Euler Totient Function
  - Euler Totient Calculator
  - Next Prime Number
  - Smallest Prime Factor
  - Sum of Divisors
  - Double Factorial
  - Catalan Numbers
  - Desargues Theorem
  - Dirichlet's theorem on arithmetic progressions
  - Smallest Number Divisible
  - Lucas series
  - Types of numbers
  - Neon Number
  - Disarium Number
  - Krishnamurthy Number
  - Automorphic Number 
  - Pronic Number
  - Harshad Number
  - Cullen Number 
  - Trimorphic Number
  - Eulerian Number
  - Carmichael Number
  
  - Delannoy Number
- Basic Converters

  - Currency Converter
    - Conversion to words **(eg. '243' to 'two hundred and forty three only')**
  - Conversion to words
  - Unit Converter
    - Length
    - Area
    - Volume
    - Mass
    - Temperature
    - Pressure
    - Energy
    - Radiation
    - Time
    - Angle
    - Speed
    - Data
    - Power
  - Improper to Mixed Fraction
  - Percentage and Ratio Converter
  - SPI/CGPA Converter
  - Ascending and Descending Order
  - Date
  - Roman/Arabic Numerals
    - Conversion from Roman to Arabic and vice versa
    - Expanding the Arabic numbers **(eg. '2423' to '2000+400+20+3')**
    - Expanding the Roman numbers **(eg. 'CIV' to 'C+IV')**

- Graphs & Shapes

  - Plot Graph
    - Plots a Graph of entered Equation having single variable 'x'
  - Plot Bar Graph
    - Plots a Bar Graph along x and y axis by taking input from the user
  - Plot Angle
  - Supplementary Angle Calculator
  - Complementary Angle Calculator
  - Coterminal Angle Calculator
  - SSS Triangle's Angle Calculator
  - Straight Line Formulas
  - Properties of Parallel Lines
  - Coordinate Systems
  - Manhattan Distance Calculator
  - Cartesian coordinates calculator
  - Spherical coordinates calculator
  - Cylindrical coordinates calculator
  - Polar coordinates calculator
  - Bilinear Interpolation Calculator
  - Coordinate Geometry Calculator
  - Coordinate Geometry Formula and Theorem
  - Segment Area Calculator
  - Curve Tracing
  - Ceva's and Thales Theorem
  - Important Graph Calculators
  - Properties of Circles
  - Triangle Calculator
  - Inequalities of Triangles
  - Properties of Quadrilaterals
  - Segment Area Calculator
  - Arc Length Calculator
  - Area of Crescent and Lune
  - Platonic Solids
  - 2-D Shapes Inscribed
  - Name Of 2D Shapes
  - Shapes Calculator + Written formulas
    - Square
    - Rectangle
    - Round corner
    - Rhombus
    - Triangles
    	1. Equilateral Triangle
    	2. Isosceles Triangle
    	3. Isosceles Right Triangle
    	4. Right-angled Triangle
    	5. Scalene Triangle
    - Circle
    - Sector of circle
    - Semi-Circle
    - Annulus
    - Kite
    - Lemniscate
    - Line
    - Trapezium
    - Ellipse
    - Stadium
    - Claw
    - Cycloid
    - Double Cycloid
    - Parallelogram
    - Polygons: Pentagon, Concave Pentagon, Hexagon, Concave Hexagon, Stretched Hexagon, Heptagon, Octagon, Nonagon, Decagon, Dodecagon, Hendecagon, TriDecagon, TetraDecagon, Pentadecagon, Hexadecagon, Heptadecagon, Octadecagon, Enneadecagon, Icosagon, Polygon Calculator
    - Star Polygons: Pentagram, Hexagram, Unicursal Hexagram, Octagram, Double Star Polygon, Star of Lakshmi
    - T-Shape
    - H-Shape
    - L-Shape
    - X-Shape
    - Drop Shape
    - Arbelos
    - Helix
    - Spherical Triangle
    - Right Kite

  - Name Of 3D Shapes
  - 3D Shapes Calculator
    - Capsule
    - Cube
    - Cuboid
    - Cupola
    - Cylinder
    - Cone
    - Double Calotte
    - Sphere
    - Hollow Cylinder
    - Oblique Circular Cylinder
    - Hollow Sphere
    - Hemisphere
    - Torus
    - Conical Frustum
    - Ellipsoid
    - Prisms
    - Pyramids
    - Wedge
    - Octahedron
    - Tetrahedron
    - Dodecahedron
    - Rhombic Dodecahedron
    - Icosahedron
    - Cuboctahedron
    - Parallelepiped
    - Hyperboloid
    - N-dimension Sphere
    - Trapezoid
    - Spheroidal Cap
    - Ellipsoidal Cap
    - Hollow Cuboid
  - 3-D shapes Inscribed
  - 4-D Shapes Calculator
    - Glome
    - Tesseract
    - Hypersphere
  - 3-D Geometry
  - 3-D Geometry Calculator
  - Volume, CSA, TSA
  - Volumetric Weight Calculator
  - Percentage change in volume of a cube
  - Percentage change in volume of a sphere
  - Percentage change in volume of a Cuboid
  - Congruence and Similarity of Triangles
  - Faulhaber's Formula

- Equations

  - Algebraic Equations Formulas
  - Roots of Quadratic Equation
  - Location of Roots
  - Play with Equations (without Steps)
    - Simplify Equation
    - Expand Equation
    - Solve value of variables of multiple inputted equations
  - Quadratic Equation Calculator

- Binary Calculations

  - Boolean Algebra
  - Any Base to Any Base Converter
  - Bin/Dec/Oct/Hex Converter
  - Addition of any Number System
  - Subtraction of any Number System
  - Multiplication of any Number System
  - Division Of any Number System
  - Decimal/BCD Converter
    - BCD Code Addition
  - Excess-3 Code Converter
  - Decimal/2421 Code Converter
  - Grey Code Converter
  - Bitwise Calculator
  - (R-1)'s & R's Complement Calculator
  - Hamming Code
  - Hamming Distance

- Complex Numbers

  - Identities
  - Properties
  - De-Moivre's Theorem and Cauchy-Reimann Theorem
  - Representation by Power Series
  - Milne Thomson Method
  - Contour Integration
  - Residue Methods
  - Cauchy Integral,Liouville's and Rouche's Theorem
  - Operations for 1 complex number
    - Magnitude
    - Argument
    - Conjugate
    - Square Root
    - Polar Representation
    - Euler Representation
    - Nth-Power of Complex Number
  - Operations for 2 complex numbers
    - Addition
    - Subtraction
    - Multiplication
    - Division
  - Roots of Unity calculator

- Probability

  - Empirical Probability
  - Geometric Probability Distribution
  - Conditional Probability
  - Joint Probability
  - Independent And Dependent Event Probability
  - Probability  Properties
  - Binomial Distribution Calculator
  - Poisson Distribution Calculator
  - Hypergeometric Distribution Calculator
  - Bayes Probability Theorem
  - Poisson Distribution Statistics
  - Hypergeometric Distribution Statistics
  - Exponential Distribution Calculator
  - Gamma Distribution Calculator
  - Mean and Variance of Random variable
- Statistics

  - Statistics Formulae
  - Weighted Mean Calculator
  - Mean Median Mode
  - Midrange Calculator
  - Sensitivity and Specificity Calculator
  - Standard Deviation
  - T-test
  - AB-test
  - F-test
  - Z-test
  - Z score Calculator
  - Relative Risk Calculator
  - Negative Binomial Distribution Calculator
  - p chart Calculator
  - p value Calculator
  - np chart Calculator
  - Confidence Interval Calculator
  - PPV calculator
  - NPV calculator
  - Odds Calculator
  - Skewness Calculator
  - Coefficient of Variation
  - Covariance Calculator
  - Correlation Coefficient Calculator
  - Linear Regression Calculator
  - Margin of Error Calculator
  - Chi-Square Test

---

## Documentation

[Makes Math Easy Documentation](https://github.com/sairish2001/Makes-Math-Easy-Documentation)

Documentation Website :- [Link](https://sairish2001.github.io/makesmatheasy-documentation//)

### Future Scope

- To add more useful calculators to solve Math problems along with steps
- To show steps of Integration, Differentiation, Laplace, Partial Differentiation rather than showing on eMathHelp website by redirecting to it
- Improving the UI
- Release in 4 variants
  - Webapp
  - Library
  - Android App
  - IOS App

Feel free to come up with new ideas yourself.

# How to Contribute

If you think that you can add a new feature or want to fix a bug. We invite you to contribute to Makes Math Easy and make this project better. To start contributing, follow the below instructions:

1. Create a folder at your desire location (usually at your desktop).

2. Open Git Bash Here

3. Create a Git repository.

   Run command `git init`

4. Fork the [repository](https://github.com/makesmatheasy/makesmatheasy).

5. Clone your forked repository of project.

```git clone
git clone https://github.com/<your_username>/makesmatheasy.git
```

6. Navigate to the project directory.

```
cd makesmatheasy
```

7. Add a reference(remote) to the original repository.

```
git remote add upstream https://github.com/makesmatheasy/makesmatheasy.git
```

8. Check the remotes for this repository.

```
git remote -v
```

9. Always take a pull from the upstream repository to your main branch to keep it updated as per the main project repository.

```
git pull upstream main
```

10. Create a new branch(prefer a branch name that relates to your assigned issue).

```
git checkout -b <YOUR_BRANCH_NAME>
```

11. Perform your desired changes to the code base.

12. Check your changes.

```
git status
```

```
git  diff
```

13. Stage your changes.

```
git add . <\files_that_you_made_changes>
```

14. Commit your changes.

```
git commit -m "relevant message"
```

15. Push the committed changes in your feature branch to your remote repository.

```
git push -u origin <your_branch_name>
```

16. To create a pull request, click on `compare and pull requests`.

17. Add an appropriate title and description to your PR explaining your changes.

18. Click on `Create pull request`.

Congratulations🎉, you have made a PR to the Makes Math Easy.
Wait for your submission to be accepted and your PR to be merged by a maintainer.

If you have any doubts please let us know in the comments.

### BE OPEN!

---

### This project is a part of the following Open Source Program
<table style="width:80%;background-color:white;border-radius:30px;">
  <tr>
  <td>
  
  ![GirlScript Summer of Code](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60106112/121303779-19d9c680-c919-11eb-8954-36fd99115527.png)

  </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
  <td>

  ![Lets Grow More Summer of Code](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/60106112/121303829-28c07900-c919-11eb-8cf2-afd39b5c54ab.png)
  </td>
  </tr>
</table>


### Project Maintainers

- [Rajinderpal Singh](https://github.com/sairish2001) (Project Admin)
- [Arpit Jain](https://github.com/arpit456jain) (Mentor)

## 🌟 Contributors

Thanks to these wonderful peoples ✨✨:

<table>
	<tr>
		<td>
			<a href="https://github.com/sairish2001/makesmatheasy.github.io/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=sairish2001/makesmatheasy.github.io" />
</a>
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>
